UC Berkeley actually has two “computer science” majors — CS and EECS. Computer Science, the major formerly in the College of Letters & Sciences (hereby denoted as L&S) and recently moved to the new College of Data Science, Computing & Society (hereby denoted as CDSS) as of Spring 2024, consists of the CS curriculum with the breadth requirements of L&S. EECS, which stands for Electrical Engineering & Computer Science, is currently situated in the College of Engineering (hereby denoted as COE).

Note that while the CS Major is technically now in the College of CDSS, it will also be referred to as the “L&S CS Major” throughout this article for consistency. To be extra clear, while the CS major still has the same breadth requirements as L&S majors, it is no longer housed in the College of L&S anymore.

For prospective applicants, applying to the two majors, CS or EECS, is equivalent to applying to two separate majors in separate colleges on campus. Here are some differences:

(1) If you put “CS” on your college application, you’re pooled in with the applicants applying for CS and will eventually end up in CDSS. If you put “EECS” on your college application, you’re pooled in with the applicants applying for EECs and will eventually end up in COE.

(2) Students who apply to the CS major graduate with a Bachelor of Arts (BA). Students who apply to the EECS major graduate with a Bachelor of Science (BS). However, despite the difference in name, note that CS and EECs majors take the EXACT SAME Computer Science courses.

(3) The biggest difference lies in OTHER requirements that the separate majors must take. Because CS is situated in L&S/CDSS, there is an inherent liberal arts emphasis to its education philosophy. Like English majors, Math majors, Molecular & Cellular Bio majors, and Political Science majors, to name a few others in the College of L&S, CS majors must fulfill unit requirements in the following seven categories: Arts & Literature, Biological Science, Historical Studies, International Studies, Philosophy & Values, Physical Science and Social & Behavioral Science. (Update Jul 11: For incoming co 2028 and onwards, CDSS has a slightly altered set of reqs, which you can read here. The L&S breadths mentioned above are still the same.) On the other hand, EECS majors must fulfill the COE requirements, which include a greater number of technical engineering courses (i.e. EE classes), natural sciences reqs (i.e. Physics), and a fewer number of humanities/social sciences courses. Note that just because a student is a CS or EECS major, it doesn’t mean they’re limited to their specific emphases; CS students can take more EE classes / technical courses if they choose to, and EECS students can take more liberal arts coursework if they want to as well. It’s just that each college has a different set of requirements, so it’s arguably harder to shift focus when there’s already a certain number of mandatory classes in place.

(4) Due to their different requirements, CS majors generally have more flexibility, while EECs majors generally have more focus/depth within the engineering discipline. Thus, those interested in double majoring (i.e. with CogSci, Philosophy etc.) are recommended to choose the CS major.